D3.js, or D3, stands for Data Driven Documents. D3 is a JavaScript library to create dynamic and interactive data visualizations in the browser. It's built to work with common web standards, namely HTML, CSS, and Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG).

D3 takes input data and maps it into a visual representation of that data. It supports many different data formats. D3 lets you bind (or attach) the data to the Document Object Model (DOM). You use HTML or SVG elements with D3's built-in methods to transform the data into a visualization.

D3 gives you a lot of control over the presentation of data. This section covers the basic functionality and how to create visualizations with the D3 library.

#  Methods
D3 has several methods that let you add and change elements in your document.

## select()
The select() method selects one element from the document. It takes an argument for the name of the element you want and returns an HTML node for the first element in the document that matches the name. Here's an example:

```javascript
const anchor = d3.select("a");
```

The above example finds the first anchor tag on the page and saves an HTML node for it in the variable anchor. You can use the selection with other methods. The "d3" part of the example is a reference to the D3 object, which is how you access D3 methods.

## append()
The append() method takes an argument for the element you want to add to the document. It appends an HTML node to a selected item, and returns a handle to that node.

## text()
The text() method either sets the text of the selected node, or gets the current text. To set the value, you pass a string as an argument inside the parentheses of the method.

## style()
D3 lets you add inline CSS styles on dynamic elements with the style() method.

The style() method takes a comma-separated key-value pair as an argument. Here's an example to set the selection's text color to blue:
```javascript
selection.style("color","blue");
```

## attr()
Using a lot of inline styles on HTML elements gets hard to manage, even for smaller apps. It's easier to add a class to elements and style that class one time using CSS rules. D3 has the attr() method to add any HTML attribute to an element, including a class name.

The attr() method works the same way that style() does. It takes comma-separated values, and can use a callback function. Here's an example to add a class of "container" to a selection:
```javascript
selection.attr("class", "container");
```
## Chaining
D3 allows you to chain several methods together with periods to perform a number of actions in a row.
Here's an example that selects an unordered list, appends a list item, and adds text:

```javascript
d3.select("ul")
    .append("li")
    .text("Very important item");
```

## selectAll()
D3 also has the selectAll() method to select a group of elements. It returns an array of HTML nodes for all the items in the document that match the input string. Here's an example to select all the anchor tags in a document:

```javascript
const anchors = d3.selectAll("a");
```

Like the select() method, selectAll() supports method chaining, and you can use it with other methods.

# Working with Data

The D3 library focuses on a data-driven approach. When you have a set of data, you can apply D3 methods to display it on the page. Data comes in many formats, but this challenge uses a simple array of numbers.

The first step is to make D3 aware of the data. The data() method is used on a selection of DOM elements to attach the data to those elements. The data set is passed as an argument to the method.

A common workflow pattern is to create a new element in the document for each piece of data in the set. D3 has the enter() method for this purpose.

When enter() is combined with the data() method, it looks at the selected elements from the page and compares them to the number of data items in the set. If there are fewer elements than data items, it creates the missing elements.

Here is an example that selects a ul element and creates a new list item based on the number of entries in the array:

```html
<body>
  <ul></ul>
  <script>
    const dataset = ["a", "b", "c"];
    d3.select("ul").selectAll("li")
      .data(dataset)
      .enter()
      .append("li")
      .text("New item");
  </script>
</body>
```

It may seem confusing to select elements that don't exist yet. This code is telling D3 to first select the ul on the page. Next, select all list items, which returns an empty selection. Then the data() method reviews the dataset and runs the following code three times, once for each item in the array. The enter() method sees there are no li elements on the page, but it needs 3 (one for each piece of data in dataset). New li elements are appended to the ul and have the text "New item".

# Working with Dynamic Data

The last couple challenges covered the tools used to display dynamic data. They introduced the data() and enter() methods. These functions take a data set, then for each item in the set, create a new element with that piece of data attached to it.

The last challenge created a new h2 for each item in the data array, but it displayed the same text ("New Title") for each heading. Fortunately, there is a way to access and display the actual data with callback functions.

The text() method can take a string or a callback function as an argument. Since the data from the dataset array is attached to each element, the callback function has access to it. The parameter used in the callback function (d in the example below) is for the individual data-point itself. This callback function would set the text in the selection to the data value:

``` javascript
selection.text((d) => d)
```

## Change Styles Based on Data
D3 is about visualization and presentation of data. It's likely you'll want to change the styling of elements based on the data. You can use a callback function in the style() method to change the styling for different elements.

For example, you may want to color a data point blue if has a value less than 20, and red otherwise. You can use a callback function in the style() method and include the conditional logic. The callback function uses the d parameter to represent the data point:

```javascript
selection.style("color", (d) => {
  /* Logic that returns the color based on a condition */
  return (d < 20) ? "red" : "green";
});
```
The style() method is not limited to setting the color - it can be used with other CSS properties as well.

## Simple Barchart
The previous challenges covered how to display data from an array and how to add CSS classes. You can combine these lessons to create a simple bar chart. There are two steps to this:

1) Create a div for each data point in the array

2) Give each div a dynamic height, using a callback function in the style() method that sets height equal to the data value

```javascript
const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    
    d3.select("body").selectAll("div")
      .data(dataset)
      .enter()
      .append("div")
      .attr("class", "bar")
      .style("height", (d) => {
        return d + "px";
      })
```

### Improving the Presentation
The last challenge created a bar chart, but there are a couple of formatting changes that could improve it:

1) Add space between each bar to visually separate them, which is done by adding a margin to the CSS for the bar class

2) Increase the height of the bars to better show the difference in values, which is done by multiplying the value by a number to scale the height

```javascript
const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    
    d3.select("body").selectAll("div")
      .data(dataset)
      .enter()
      .append("div")
      .attr("class", "bar")
      .style("height", (d) => ((d * 10) + "px"))
```

# SVG
SVG stands for Scalable Vector Graphics.

Here "scalable" means that, if you zoom in or out on an object, it would not appear pixelated. It scales with the display system, whether it's on a small mobile screen or a large TV monitor.

SVG is used to make common geometric shapes. Since D3 maps data into a visual representation, it uses SVG to create the shapes for the visualization. SVG shapes for a web page must go within an HTML svg tag.

CSS can be scalable when styles use relative units (such as vh, vw, or percentages), but using SVG is more flexible to build data visualizations.

Note:
Width and height attributes do not have units. This is the building block of scaling - the element will always have a 5:1 width to height ratio, no matter what the zoom level is.

```javascript
const w = 500;
    const h = 100;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h)
```
## Display Shapes with SVG
The last challenge created an svg element with a given width and height, which was visible because it had a background-color applied to it in the style tag. The code made space for the given width and height.

The next step is to create a shape to put in the svg area. There are a number of supported shapes in SVG, such as rectangles and circles. They are used to display data. For example, a rectangle (<rect>) SVG shape could create a bar in a bar chart.

When you place a shape into the svg area, you can specify where it goes with x and y coordinates. The origin point of (0, 0) is in the upper-left corner. Positive vales for x push the shape to the right, and positive values for y push the shape down from the origin point.

To place a shape in the middle of the 500 (width) x 100 (height) svg from last challenge, the x coordinate would be 250 and the y coordinate would be 50.

An SVG rect has four attributes. There are the x and y coordinates for where it is placed in the svg area. It also has a height and width to specify the size.

```javascript
const w = 500;
    const h = 100;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h)
                  // Add your code below this line
                  .append("rect")
                  .attr("width", "25")
                  .attr("height", "100")
                  .attr("x", 0)
                  .attr("y", 0)
 ```
 
 ## SVG Barchart
 The last challenge added only one rectangle to the svg element to represent a bar. Here, you'll combine what you've learned so far about data(), enter(), and SVG shapes to create and append a rectangle for each data point in dataset.

There are a few differences working with rect elements instead of divs. The rects must be appended to an svg element, not directly to the body. Also, you need to tell D3 where to place each rect within the svg area. The bar placement will be covered in the next challenge.

```javascript
const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    
    const w = 500;
    const h = 100;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       
       .attr("x", 0)
       .attr("y", 0)
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", 100);
```

### Dynamically Set the Coordinates for Each Bar
The last challenge created and appended a rectangle to the svg element for each point in dataset to represent a bar. Unfortunately, they were all stacked on top of each other.

The placement of a rectangle is handled by the x and y attributes. They tell D3 where to start drawing the shape in the svg area. The last challenge set them each to 0, so every bar was placed in the upper-left corner.

For a bar chart, all of the bars should sit on the same vertical level, which means the y value stays the same (at 0) for all bars. The x value, however, needs to change as you add new bars. Remember that larger x values push items farther to the right. As you go through the array elements in dataset, the x value should increase.

The attr() method in D3 accepts a callback function to dynamically set that attribute. The callback function takes two arguments, one for the data point itself (usually d) and one for the index of the data point in the array. The second argument for the index is optional. Here's the format:

```javascript
selection.attr("property", (d, i) => {
  /* 
  * d is the data point value
  * i is the index of the data point in the array
  */
})
```

It's important to note that you do NOT need to write a for loop or use forEach() to iterate over the items in the data set. Recall that the data() method parses the data set, and any method that's chained after data() is run once for each item in the data set.

```javascript
svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => {
         return i * 30;                  
       })
       .attr("y", 0)
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", 100);
  ```
  
### Dynamically Change the Height of Each Bar
The height of each bar can be set to the value of the data point in the array, similar to how the x value was set dynamically.
  
  ```javascript
  svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", 0)
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", (d, i) => {
         return d * 3;
       });
  ```
### Change the Color of an SVG Element
In SVG, a rect shape is colored with the fill attribute. It supports hex codes, color names, and rgb values, as well as more complex options like gradients and transparency.
```javascript
selection..attr("fill", "navy")
```

## Invert SVG Elements
You may have noticed the bar chart looked like it's upside-down, or inverted. This is because of how SVG uses (x, y) coordinates.

In SVG, the origin point for the coordinates is in the upper-left corner. An x coordinate of 0 places a shape on the left edge of the SVG area. A y coordinate of 0 places a shape on the top edge of the SVG area. Higher x values push the rectangle to the right. Higher y values push the rectangle down.

To make the bars right-side-up, you need to change the way the y coordinate is calculated. It needs to account for both the height of the bar and the total height of the SVG area.

The height of the SVG area is 100. If you have a data point of 0 in the set, you would want the bar to start at the bottom of the SVG area (not the top). To do this, the y coordinate needs a value of 100. If the data point value were 1, you would start with a y coordinate of 100 to set the bar at the bottom. Then you need to account for the height of the bar of 1, so the final y coordinate would be 99.

The y coordinate that is y = heightOfSVG - heightOfBar would place the bars right-side-up.

Note
In general, the relationship is y = h - m * d, where m is the constant that scales the data points.

```javascript
const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    
    const w = 500;
    const h = 100;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", (d, i) => {
       
         return h - (d * 3)

       })
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", (d, i) => 3 * d);
```

## Labels
D3 lets you label a graph element, such as a bar, using the SVG text element.

Like the rect element, a text element needs to have x and y attributes, to place it on the SVG canvas. It also needs to access the data to display those values.

D3 gives you a high level of control over how you label your bars.

```javascript
const dataset = [12, 31, 22, 17, 25, 18, 29, 14, 9];
    
    const w = 500;
    const h = 100;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", (d, i) => h - 3 * d)
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", (d, i) => 3 * d)
       .attr("fill", "navy");
    
    svg.selectAll("text")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("text")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", (d, i) => h - (3 * d) - 3)
       .text((d)=> d)

```

### Styling Labels
D3 methods can add styles to the bar labels. The fill attribute sets the color of the text for a text node. The style() method sets CSS rules for other styles, such as "font-family" or "font-size".

```javascript
 svg.selectAll("text")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("text")
       .text((d) => d)
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", (d, i) => h - (3 * d) - 3)

       .attr("fill", "red")
       .style("font-size", "25px")
       
```

## Hover Effect to a D3 Element
It's possible to add effects that highlight a bar when the user hovers over it with the mouse. So far, the styling for the rectangles is applied with the built-in D3 and SVG methods, but you can use CSS as well.

You set the CSS class on the SVG elements with the attr() method. Then the :hover pseudo-class for your new class holds the style rules for any hover effects.

```css
.bar:hover {
    fill: brown;
}
```

```javascript
svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", (d, i) => h - 3 * d)
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", (d, i) => 3 * d)
       .attr("fill", "navy")
       
       .attr("class", "bar")
    
```

## Tooltip
A tooltip shows more information about an item on a page when the user hovers over that item. There are several ways to add a tooltip to a visualization, this challenge uses the SVG title element.

title pairs with the text() method to dynamically add data to the bars.

```javascript
 svg.selectAll("rect")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("rect")
       .attr("x", (d, i) => i * 30)
       .attr("y", (d, i) => h - 3 * d)
       .attr("width", 25)
       .attr("height", (d, i) => d * 3)
       .attr("fill", "navy")
       .attr("class", "bar")

       .append("title")
       .text((d)=> d)     
 ```
 
# Scatterplot
A scatter plot is another type of visualization. It usually uses circles to map data points, which have two values each. These values tie to the x and y axes, and are used to position the circle in the visualization.

SVG has a circle tag to create the circle shape. It works a lot like the rect elements you used for the bar chart.

```javascript
const w = 500;
    const h = 500;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("circle")
      
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("circle")
```

## Add Attributes to the Circle Elements
D3 needs more information about the position and size of each circle to display them correctly.

A circle in SVG has three main attributes. The cx and cy attributes are the coordinates. They tell D3 where to position the center of the shape on the SVG canvas. The radius (r attribute) gives the size of the circle.

Just like the rect y coordinate, the cy attribute for a circle is measured from the top of the SVG canvas, not from the bottom.

All three attributes can use a callback function to set their values dynamically. Remember that all methods chained after data(dataset) run once per item in dataset. The d parameter in the callback function refers to the current item in dataset, which is an array for each point. You use bracket notation, like d[0], to access the values in that array.

```javascript
const dataset = [
      [ 34, 78 ],[ 109,   280 ],[ 310,   120 ],[ 79,    411 ],
      [ 420,   220 ],[ 233,   145 ],[ 333,   96 ],[ 222,   333 ],
      [ 78,    320 ],[ 21,    123 ]
    ];
    
    
    const w = 500;
    const h = 500;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("circle")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("circle")

       .attr("cx", (d) => d[0])
       .attr("cy", (d) => h - d[1])
       .attr("r", 5);
```

## Add Labels
You can add text to create labels for the points in a scatter plot.

The goal is to display the comma-separated values for the first (x) and second (y) fields of each item in dataset.

The text nodes need x and y attributes to position it on the SVG canvas. In this challenge, the y value (which determines height) can use the same value that the circle uses for its cy attribute. The x value can be slightly larger than the cx value of the circle, so the label is visible. This will push the label to the right of the plotted point.

```javascript
const dataset = [
      [ 34, 78 ],[ 109,   280 ],[ 310,   120 ],[ 79,    411 ],
      [ 420,   220 ],[ 233,   145 ],[ 333,   96 ],[ 222,   333 ],
      [ 78,    320 ],[ 21,    123 ]
    ];
        
    const w = 500;
    const h = 500;
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("circle")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("circle")
       .attr("cx", (d, i) => d[0])
       .attr("cy", (d, i) => h - d[1])
       .attr("r", 5);
    
    svg.selectAll("text")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("text")

       .attr("x", (d) => d[0] + 5)
       .attr("y", (d) => h - d[1])
       .text((d) => d[0] + ", " + d[1])
```

# Linear Scale
The bar and scatter plot charts both plotted data directly onto the SVG canvas. However, if the height of a bar or one of the data points were larger than the SVG height or width values, it would go outside the SVG area.

In D3, there are scales to help plot data. Scales are functions that tell the program how to map a set of raw data points onto the pixels of the SVG canvas.

For example, say you have a 100x500-sized SVG canvas and you want to plot Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for a number of countries. The set of numbers would be in the billion or trillion-dollar range. You provide D3 a type of scale to tell it how to place the large GDP values into that 100x500-sized area.

It's unlikely you would plot raw data as-is. Before plotting it, you set the scale for your entire data set, so that the x and y values fit your canvas width and height.

D3 has several scale types. For a linear scale (usually used with quantitative data), there is the D3 method scaleLinear():
```javascript
 const scale = d3.scaleLinear()
```
By default, a scale uses the identity relationship. The value of the input is the same as the value of the output. A separate challenge covers how to change this.

```javascript   
    const scale = d3.scaleLinear(); // Create the scale here
    const output = scale(50); // Call the scale with an argument here
    
    d3.select("body")
      .append("h2")
      .text(output);
```

## Set a Domain and a Range on a Scale
By default, scales use the identity relationship - the input value maps to the output value. But scales can be much more flexible and interesting.

Say a data set has values ranging from 50 to 480. This in the input information for a scale, and is also known as the domain.

You want to map those points along the x axis on the SVG canvas, between 10 units and 500 units. This is the output information, which is also known as the range.

The domain() and range() methods set these values for the scale. Both methods take an array of at least two elements as an argument. Here's an example:
```javascript
// Set a domain
// The domain covers the set of input values
scale.domain([50, 480]);

// Set a range
// The range covers the set of output values
scale.range([10, 500]);
scale(50) // Returns 10
scale(480) // Returns 500
scale(325) // Returns 323.37
scale(750) // Returns 807.67
d3.scaleLinear()
```
Notice that the scale uses the linear relationship between the domain and range values to figure out what the output should be for a given number. The minimum value in the domain (50) maps to the minimum value (10) in the range.

## d3.max and d3.min 
The D3 methods domain() and range() set that information for your scale based on the data. There are a couple methods to make that easier.

Often when you set the domain, you'll want to use the minimum and maximum values within the data set. Trying to find these values manually, especially in a large data set, may cause errors.

D3 has two methods - min() and max() to return this information. Here's an example:

```javascript
const exampleData = [34, 234, 73, 90, 6, 52];
d3.min(exampleData) // Returns 6
d3.max(exampleData) // Returns 234
```

A dataset may have nested arrays, like the [x, y] coordinate pairs that were in the scatter plot example. In that case, you need to tell D3 how to calculate the maximum and minimum.

Fortunately, both the min() and max() methods take a callback function.

In this example, the callback function's argument d is for the current inner array. The callback needs to return the element from the inner array (the x or y value) over which you want to compute the maximum or minimum. Here's an example for how to find the min and max values with an array of arrays:
```javascript
const locationData = [[1, 7],[6, 3],[8, 3]];
// Returns the smallest number out of the first elements
const minX = d3.min(locationData, (d) => d[0]);
// minX compared 1, 6, and 8 and is set to 1
```

## Use Dynamic Scales
The D3 min() and max() methods are useful to help set the scale.

Given a complex data set, one priority is to set the scale so the visualization fits the SVG container's width and height. You want all the data plotted inside the SVG canvas so it's visible on the web page.

The example below sets the x-axis scale for scatter plot data. The domain() method passes information to the scale about the raw data values for the plot. The range() method gives it information about the actual space on the web page for the visualization.

In the example, the domain goes from 0 to the maximum in the set. It uses the max() method with a callback function based on the x values in the arrays. The range uses the SVG canvas' width (w), but it includes some padding, too. This puts space between the scatter plot dots and the edge of the SVG canvas.
```javascript
const dataset = [[ 34,    78 ],[ 109,   280 ],[ 310,   120 ],[ 79,    411 ],[ 420,   220 ],[ 233,   145 ],
                 [ 333,   96 ],[ 222,   333 ],[ 78,    320 ],[ 21,    123 ]
                ];
const w = 500;
const h = 500;

// Padding between the SVG canvas boundary and the plot
const padding = 30;
const xScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                 .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[0])])
                 .range([padding, w - padding]);
```
The padding may be confusing at first. Picture the x-axis as a horizontal line from 0 to 500 (the width value for the SVG canvas). Including the padding in the range() method forces the plot to start at 30 along that line (instead of 0), and end at 470 (instead of 500).

```javascript
const dataset = [[ 34,    78 ],[ 109,   280 ],[ 310,   120 ],[ 79,    411 ],[ 420,   220 ],[ 233,   145 ],
                 [ 333,   96 ],[ 222,   333 ],[ 78,    320 ],[ 21,    123 ]
                ];
const w = 500;
const h = 500;

// Padding between the SVG canvas boundary and the plot
    const padding = 30;
    
    // Create an x and y scale
    
    const xScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                    .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[0])])
                    .range([padding, w - padding]);
    
    // Add your code below this line
    
    const yScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                    .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[1])])
                    .range([h - padding, padding]);
                     
                     
    // Add your code above this line
    
    const output = yScale(411); // Returns 30
    d3.select("body")
      .append("h2")
      .text(output)
```

## Use a Pre-Defined Scale to Place Elements
With the scales set up, it's time to map the scatter plot again. The scales are like processing functions that turn the x and y raw data into values that fit and render correctly on the SVG canvas. They keep the data within the screen's plotting area.

You set the coordinate attribute values for an SVG shape with the scaling function. This includes x and y attributes for rect or text elements, or cx and cy for circles. Here's an example:
```javascript
shape
  .attr("x", (d) => xScale(d[0]))
```
Scales set shape coordinate attributes to place the data points onto the SVG canvas. You don't need to apply scales when you display the actual data value, for example, in the text() method for a tooltip or label.

```javascript
const dataset = [[ 34,    78 ],[ 109,   280 ],[ 310,   120 ],[ 79,    411 ],[ 420,   220 ],[ 233,   145 ],
                 [ 333,   96 ],[ 222,   333 ],[ 78,    320 ],[ 21,    123 ]
                ];
const w = 500;
const h = 500;

const padding = 60;
    
    const xScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                     .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[0])])
                     .range([padding, w - padding]);
    
    const yScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                     .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[1])])
                     .range([h - padding, padding]);
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("circle")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("circle")

       .attr("cx", (d, i) => xScale(d[0]))
       .attr("cy", (d, i) => yScale(d[1]))
       .attr("r", 5);
       
    svg.selectAll("text")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("text")
       .text((d) =>  (d[0] + ", "
 + d[1]))

       .attr("x", (d, i) => xScale(d[0] + 10))
       .attr("y", (d, i) => yScale(d[1]))      
```
## Add Axes to a Visualization
Another way to improve the scatter plot is to add an x-axis and a y-axis.

D3 has two methods axisLeft() and axisBottom() to render the y and x axes, respectively. (Axes is the plural form of axis). Here's an example to create the x-axis based on the xScale in the previous challenges:
```javascript
const xAxis = d3.axisBottom(xScale);
```
The next step is to render the axis on the SVG canvas. To do so, you can use a general SVG component, the g element. The g stands for group.

Unlike rect, circle, and text, an axis is just a straight line when it's rendered. Because it is a simple shape, using g works.

The last step is to apply a transform attribute to position the axis on the SVG canvas in the right place. Otherwise, the line would render along the border of SVG canvas and wouldn't be visible.

SVG supports different types of transforms, but positioning an axis needs translate. When it's applied to the g element, it moves the whole group over and down by the given amounts. Here's an example:
```javascript
const xAxis = d3.axisBottom(xScale);

svg.append("g")
   .attr("transform", "translate(0, " + (h - padding) + ")")
   .call(xAxis);
```
The above code places the x-axis at the bottom of the SVG canvas. Then it's passed as an argument to the call() method.

The y-axis works is the same way, except the translate argument is in the form (x, 0). Because translate is a string in the attr() method above, you can use concatenation to include variable values for its arguments.

```javascript
const dataset = [[ 34,    78 ],[ 109,   280 ],[ 310,   120 ],[ 79,    411 ],[ 420,   220 ],[ 233,   145 ],
                 [ 333,   96 ],[ 222,   333 ],[ 78,    320 ],[ 21,    123 ]
                ];
const w = 500;
const h = 500;

 const padding = 60;
    
    const xScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                     .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[0])])
                     .range([padding, w - padding]);
    
    const yScale = d3.scaleLinear()
                     .domain([0, d3.max(dataset, (d) => d[1])])
                     .range([h - padding, padding]);
    
    const svg = d3.select("body")
                  .append("svg")
                  .attr("width", w)
                  .attr("height", h);
    
    svg.selectAll("circle")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("circle")
       .attr("cx", (d) => xScale(d[0]))
       .attr("cy",(d) => yScale(d[1]))
       .attr("r", (d) => 5);
    
    svg.selectAll("text")
       .data(dataset)
       .enter()
       .append("text")
       .text((d) =>  (d[0] + "," + d[1]))
       .attr("x", (d) => xScale(d[0] + 10))
       .attr("y", (d) => yScale(d[1]))
    
    const xAxis = d3.axisBottom(xScale);
    svg.append("g")
       .attr("transform", "translate(0," + (h - padding) + ")")
       .call(xAxis);
    

    const yAxis = d3.axisLeft(yScale);   
    svg.append("g")
       .attr("transform", "translate(padding,0)")
       .call(yAxis);
```
